COSTA BRAVO Quarantine to be slashed to 10 days for UK travellers arriving from Spain under Government plans

QUARANTINE is set to be slashed to ten days for Brits coming home from Spain under Government plans.

The Telegraph reports the two week self-isolation will be shaved down by a few days after holidaymakers were in uproar about the lost wages and cancelled plans.

It comes after confused holidaymakers now fear a ruined summer with trips facing the axe after an effective travel ban was slapped on Spain this weekend.

The devastating blow came as long-awaited European holidays for thousands of Brits were thrown into chaos with families cancelling trips to Europe.

It is believed new plans are being finalised to lessen the sting of the restrictions now in place.

The Telegraph reports arrivals from high-risk countries could be tested eight days after landing for coronavirus, and if the results are negative they would be allowed to leave self-isolation.

It would potentially keep Brits returning from holiday in quarantine for just one week.

It comes as:
Thousands of holidays remain in limbo today as people struggle to get refunds or change their bookings. Spain demanded to be put back on the safe list, saying it had its case numbers under control. No10 today warned that no travel was "risk free" in the current climate. Transport Secretary Grant Schapps dashed back to the UK from his Spanish break - but he will have to quarantine. Brits told not to travel to Spain's islands of Majorca, Ibiza and the Canary Islands in Government U-turn.

It is believed that if someone tests negative for the virus eight days after any possible exposure, it is likely they do not have the disease.

A government spokesman said the 10-day quarantine period was under discussion but that no final decision had yet been made.

Families hit out at the sudden restrictions on travelling to Spain this evening, which would see them lose money and valuable holiday time.

And Brits returning home today told of their anger at being trapped in the mess - with many slamming a lack of social distancing as they queued to leave Luton Airport.

Many people will now be nervous of booking flights and hotels abroad in case the Government changes travel advice again and they lose money.

In the fallout of the unpopular clamp down on Spanish getaways, ministers have reportedly been debating ways to save the summer holiday season and calm frantic Brits.

Amid the chaos, flights could be scuppered at any moment - with Jet2 today cancelling flights to mainland Spain until August 17, and TUI announcing it would not fly to Spain.

Saturday's announcement, which gave just four hours' notice, affected as many as 600,000 Brits booked on Spanish getaways, as many frantically tried to get home this weekend before the quarantine was imposed.

The decision to reimpose quarantine on all UK arrivals from Spain, was taken after the Cabinet’s coronavirus operations committee heard about Brits bringing the virus into the UK.

Tens of thousands of Brits say they cannot afford to effectively take a month off work - with no guarantee from the government regarding their jobs amid the new advice.

NHS hero Nicola Ley, 35, told the Sun Online she faces two weeks unpaid after flying out to Malaga for a much-needed break following months of 45-hour weeks on the frontline.

Brits returning from Spain cannot claim sick pay - so key worker Nicola is now worried about overspending on holiday due to fears of lost wages.

"I don’t know what’s going to happen with me for work, if they’re going to make me take leave or holiday and you’ve got that hanging over you." - Nicola Ley

She said: “We have got a private pool so we’re trying to enjoy our holiday, but it’s been ruined by the two weeks when we get back.”

“We don’t want to spend any money now because we’ve lost the next two weeks at our jobs. ”

“I don’t know what’s going to happen with me for work, if they’re going to make me take leave or holiday and you’ve got that hanging over you.”

Downing Street even advised those who miss out on work due to the sudden quarantine should claim Universal Credit or employment support allowance - up to £74.35 a week - to make ends meet. 

Workers could be sacked or lose out on cash while sticking to the sudden rules - as employers do not have to offer any pay while they are off.

Joanne Jackson, 49, flew home after a two-week break in Nerja and said she has now lost £2,000 in wages.

The care worker, of Manchester, said: "Everyone abroad should have been given two weeks' notice, not just a few hours."

"Who is going to pay my wages? Who is going to pay my mortgage and bills? What will I do for money?"

Typifying the chaos, Transport Secretary Grant Shapps was himself on holiday in Spain before being forced to rush back to Britain - and quarantine - in an effort to sort out the confusion.

He told The Sun this afternoon he was leaving his family and cutting the break short - just hours after he landed there on Saturday.

This evening a U-turn saw Brits told not to travel to Spain's islands of Majorca, Ibiza and the Canary Islands.

Earlier today tourists from the UK were still free to visit the Balearic islands, but only essential journeys are now advised, after ministers rowed over keeping them out of the restrictions.

The Sun understands there were heated discussion in No10 over “whether there should be a different approach” before the PM got involved and called for a simplified message.

Paul Mitchell, 55, and Dawn Painter, 44, who live in East Sussex, flew into Heathrow Airport from Alicante on Monday afternoon after spending 10 days at a holiday home in Arboleas.

Ms Painter said: "We've come from a sleepy little village where everyone is social distancing, it wasn't on a beach in Benidorm or anything like that, and we're being penalised for that, just like all the big cities are basically."

Coronavirus fatalities in the UK hit 45,759 today after seven more died with the killer bug - one of the lowest daily rises since the virus took hold in the UK.

But a total of 300,111 people have now tested positive for Covid-19 across Britain - a rise of 685 cases from yesterday.

Earlier today This Morning's travel expert Simon Calder was slammed online for "encouraging viewers to break quarantine" - with host Ruth Langsford forced to cut him off.

The 64-year-old travel pro was branded a "danger to public health" as horrified fans watched in shock while he shared loopholes surrounding the  14-day quarantine Brits face when travelling to Spain.

It was revealed today only one person has been fined by cops for breaching quarantine rules after arriving in the country from abroad - however this doesn't include fines issued by Border Force, who had given out three by July 10.

Under the quarantine rules, travellers must stay indoors for 14 days at n address given to officials at the airport upon landing, and only allowed out to shop if they cannot rely on others to help.

As fears grow that more destinations will be slapped with restrictions, France and Germany have confirmed a spike in coronavirus cases, while Italy and Greece have also seen infections rise since tourists returned.

