Lewis Hamilton insists he has been misinterpreted after he sparked backlash by sharing anti-vaxxer post accusing Bill Gates of lying about Covid-19 trials

Lewis Hamilton shared an anti-vaxxer video on Instagram on Monday morning 
The F1 star has been criticised over his stance on vaccination as a response 
The video in question saw billionaire Bill Gates provide an update on a vaccine for Covid-19 and the caption with it read: "I remember when I told my first lie"
Hamilton has since deleted the video from his Instagram Stories page 
World No 1 tennis player Novak Djokovic has previously gone public on his anti-vaccination stance, which drew criticisms from peers and his supporters 

Lewis Hamilton insisted today he was 'misinterpreted' after he sparked backlash for  sharing an anti-vaxxer video with his 18.3million Instagram followers which accused Bill Gates of lying about Covid-19 vaccine trials.  

The six-time Formula One champion, 35, shared a video by content creator King Bach on his Instagram story twice, which shows tech billionaire Bill Gates being interviewed about the progress being made to develop a vaccine to fight Covid-19.  

The caption on the video, which was not written by Hamilton, reads: "I remember when I told my first lie."

In the footage, Gates can be heard playing down concerns of potential side-effects of a vaccine and rubbishes the baseless conspiracy theory that he plans to embed tracking chips into it once developed.  

Hamilton has since issued an Instagram statement saying he had not seen the caption on the video and that the post had been misinterpreted after social media users criticised him for spreading 'antivax nonsense' and 'misinformation'.  

He wrote on social media: "I've noticed some comments on my earlier post about the coronavirus vaccine, and want to clarify my thoughts on it, as I understand why they might have been misinterpreted. "

"Firstly I hadn't actually seen the comment attached so that is totally my fault and I have a lot of respect for the charity work Bill Gates does."

"I also want to be clear that I am not against a vaccine and no doubt it will be important in the fight against coronavirus, and I'm hopeful for its development to save lives."

"However after watching the video, I felt it showed that there is still a lot of uncertainty about the side effects most importantly and how it is going to be funded. I may not always get my posting right. I'm only human but I'm learning as we go."

Gates, the Microsoft founder, now directs much of his time and energy to his global health foundation and backs South Korean company SK Bioscience. 

He gave $3.6million (£2.8m) to the company in May for the purpose of accelerating the development of a vaccine to combat Covid-19. 

And in a letter to South Korean president Moon Jae-in, as reported by Fortune, Gates stated he was convinced the company could produce as many as 200m vaccine kits by June 2021. 

Vaccination is the latest controversy Hamilton has involved himself with after he recently branded Bernie Ecclestone 'ignorant and uneducated' after the ex-Formula 1 boss made comments about racism. 

Ecclestone, 89, told CNN that "in lots of cases, black people are more racist than what white people are". 

World champion Hamilton said Ecclestone's remarks were sad and disappointing.    

Hamilton attended a Black Lives Matter protest in Hyde Park last month after global uproar following the death of George Floyd and has taken the knee at sporting events including the recent Hungarian Grand Prix. 

