A SOBBING Kanye West revealed he stopped Kim Kardashian from having an abortion when she was pregnant with their first child, North, in 2013.

The 43-year-old rapper made the shocking announcement as he broke down in tears during his first presidential campaign rally in South Carolina on Sunday.

Kanye gave a long speech at the Exquis Event Center in Charleston, when the topic of abortion was brought up.

“My dad wanted to abort me. My mom saved my life. There would have been no Kanye West without my mom," he said of mother Donda who passed away in 2007.

The Yeezy fashion mogul started crying hysterically as he recalled the couple debating whether to go through with Kim's first pregnancy.

He yelled to the crowd: “She had the pills in her hand."

"My girlfriend called me screaming, crying. I'm a rapper. And she said I'm pregnant. She was crying," he continued.

Kanye - who said he was working on his laptop in Paris at the time - added: "My screen went black and white.

"And God said, 'if you f*** with my vision, I’m going to f*** with yours.'

"And I called my girlfriend and said we're going to have this child.

"Even if my wife were to divorce me after this speech, she brought North into this world."

As tears were streaming down his face, he then screamed: “I almost killed my daughter.”

“No Plan B. There is Plan A,” Kanye cried towards the end of his political event.

Kim, 39, gave birth to their first child together, North, on June 15, 2013.

She also shares sons Saint, four, Psalm, one, and two-year-old daughter Chicago with the musician.

The Grammy winner shocked the world on the Fourth of July when he announced his presidential dreams.

He wrote: “We must now realize the promise of America by trusting God, unifying our vision and building our future.

“I am running for president of the United States!”

Recent reports claim that Kanye's bipolar disorder has "impacted his decision-making" and has left his family "very concerned.”

A source told TMZ that the rapper is in the midst of a manic episode caused by bipolar disorder – a condition that he has been open about in the past.

The report said Kanye usually has a serious bout "once a year" and claimed that the disorder is behind the unconventional statements he has made in recent weeks.

His latest behavior has left his family "worried," but they remain confident his condition will stabilize as it has in the past, according to the report.

Back in 2016, the rapper was hospitalized after a "psychiatric emergency" and was forced to cancel 21 concert dates.

Before today's events, Kim reportedly admitted to not “agreeing” with some of his latest views, but sources told ET: ”Kanye’s family will always support him in his endeavors."
