Tom Hanks and Rita Wilson have become citizens of Greece as they pose with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis

Tom Hanks and Rita Wilson are now officially citizens of Greece, it was revealed by Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis.

The PM shared a photo on Saturday night of himself, his wife Mareva Grabowski, with Hanks, 64, and Wilson, 63.

The actors were seen holding up their new Greek passports, with Mitsotakis stating both Hanks and Wilson, "are now proud Greek citizens!"

Both Hanks and Wilson have been vacationing in Greece for years, with Wilson's mother Dorothea Tzigkou born in Albania near the Greece border.

Wilson even explored her heritage further in a 2012 episode of the PBS series Who Do You Think You Are with Louis Gates Jr. 

The couple most recently celebrated Hanks' 64th birthday on Paros Island in Greece earlier this month.

The country of Greece also extended citizenship to Hanks' entire family, including his children Colin, 42, Elizabeth, 38, Chet, 29 and Truman, 24.

Hanks and Wilson met with Mitsotakis where they were given their naturalization documents and passports, which they're holding in the photo. 

Hanks and Wilson own a home on the Greek island of Antiparos, where they bought a plot of land and built their summer home in 2004.

The couple also bought a second home in Greece in 2018, in the Skala area of the Greek island of Patmos.

The stone villa was built in the Dodecanese style of architecture, with a terrace overlooking the sea that the couple were 'enchanted' by (via Greek Reporter). 

The report added there is a nearby heliport and the only way of getting on or off the island was via helicopter. 

Both Hanks and Wilson also served as producers on one of the biggest independent movies of all time, My Big Fat Greek Wedding.

The film earned $368.7 million at the box office worldwide, from just a $5 million budget, making it one of the most successful indie movies of all time.

Hanks most recently starred in the World War II thriller Greyhound, and Wilson stars in the upcoming Love Is Love Is Love, which debuts at the Deauville American Film Festival in September. 

