Meghan and Harry book quotes source who sounds VERY familiar ...so how involved were they?

MEGHAN MARKLE and Prince Harry's denial of any involvement in a new tell-all book has been called into question by royal experts.

Meghan Markle and Prince Harry have gone on the record and said they have not contributed to the bombshell book about them called Finding Freedom. Written by Carolyn Durand and Omid Scobie, the new biography cites several sources close to Meghan and Harry and details their relationship with other members of the Royal Family and controversial exit from the Firm.

In the book serialised by The Times, it has since emerged language used in some of the claims bared similarities to an official statement issued by Duchess of Sussex.

In one extract, a source close to the couple described the moment Prince Harry knew Meghan was the girl for him.

They said: "He knew Meghan was right for him. Their love was real, and their feelings for each other were genuine."

“Everything else was noise."

The language quoted by the insider in the book is almost identical to the tone Meghan used in her first interview about Harry in 2017.

For her Vanity Fair cover shoot, Meghan discussed what is was like to date a member of the Royal Family, she said: "The people who are close to me anchor me in knowing who I am.

"The rest is noise."

Royal expert Russell Myers said it is “very hard to believe” the Duke and Duchess of Sussex had no input into the book.

He also warned it would not make good reading for any members of the Royal Family.

Appearing on ITVs Lorraine, Mr Myers said: "It's a lot of mudslinging this book, and I don't think it will be comfortable reading for anyone in Royal Family."

"It's airing dirty laundry in public."

"I don't understand why they would have thought it was a good idea."

"You go back to their team saying they've had no cooperation in this, but that is very hard to believe indeed."

Paul Burrell, former butler to Princess Diana, also questioned whether the royals knew about the publication.

In an interview on ITVs Good Morning Britain, Mr Burrell said: "It's likely that William and Harry did know about this book and turned a blind eye to that."

"Personal friends have obviously given exclusives to journalists."

The book also claims Prince William feared Harry had been "blindsided by lust" when he first met Meghan in 2016.

It is also alleged members within the royal circle had raised concerns over his new American girlfriend.

The book quotes one senior royal branding Meghan as “Harry’s showgirl”, while an aide claimed the former Suits actress “comes with a lot of baggage”.

The biography set to be published on August 11 also says by the time Meghan and Harry were due to officially leave the firm, they were barely speaking to the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge.

The quartet once dubbed the “Fab Four” were last seen together at the Commonwealth Service at Westminster Abbey in March and it is claimed Kate blanked Meghan at the event.

The co-authors wrote: "Although Meghan tried to make eye contact with Kate, the duchess barely acknowledged her."

A spokesman for Meghan and Harry said the couple did not contribute to the book.

He said: "The Duke and Duchess of Sussex were not interviewed and did not contribute to Finding Freedom."

"This book is based on the authors' own experiences as members of the royal press corps and their own independent reporting."
