INTIMATE DETAILS Meghan Markle & Prince Harry book Finding Freedom’s details hint at more access than couple admit

INTIMATE details revealed in a shocking new biography about Meghan Markle and Prince Harry have today hinted at the couple giving more access than they have admitted.

Finding Freedom revealed Prince Harry was the first one to say "I love you", while detailing messages that Meghan sent her estranged father Thomas Markle in the lead up to her wedding.

Excerpts from the biography, published in the Times and Sunday Times over the weekend, also revealed how the Duke of Sussex's relationship with his brother Prince William had become strained after the future king told him not to rush the relationship and referred to Meghan as “this girl”,

But despite the incredible level of detail released in the book, a spokesperson for the couple insisted they had not been involved in the book.

They said in a statement: "The Duke and Duchess of Sussex were not interviewed and did not contribute to Finding Freedom."

"This book is based on the authors' own experiences as members of the royal press corps and their own independent reporting."

Intimate details revealed in Finding Freedom include:

Prince Harry said "I love you" first - with Meghan replying "I love you too"
The couple got secretly engaged two months before revealing the news
Meghan Markle told a pal while she was sitting in a bathtub that she had sent a text to her father the night before her wedding
Prince Harry called William 'a snob' for the way he spoke about Meghan
The former actress moaned she had given up her life for the Royal Family

And in an interview with The Times, author Omid Scobie carefully answered: "The book doesn't claim to have any interviews with Harry and Meghan. And nor do we."

When quizzed over whether the couple had given off record interviews, he added: "No, and I think that you can tell from the reporting, my time around the couple is enough for me to know my subjects."

Yet the detailed excerpts also revealed Meghan's heartache over her father before her wedding to Prince Harry - saying she had sent a "barrage"£ of voicemails and messages to the 76-year-old.

The book stated: "The night before the wedding, she sent her father one last text. He did not reply."

"Sitting in a bath later that night, FaceTiming with a friend, the bride-to-be said she had left her dad a final message, adding: ‘I can’t sit up all night just pressing send’."

The former actress was also said to have been reduced to tears after seeing paparazzi shots of her mother.

The biography also claimed Harry, 35, had been left frustrated with his brother Prince William, 38, over his reaction to his relationship with Meghan.

Touchy Harry was “p***ed off” when William warned him not to be “blindsided by lust” over new girlfriend Meghan.

And he was enraged when William told him not to rush the relationship and referred to Meghan as “this girl”, said the authors.

William was also said to have told Harry to not "rush" the relationship.

It was then claimed in the book that Harry and Meghan got secretly engatged on a trip to Botswana two months before telling the world.

Meanwhile, it was claimed in the biography that Meghan had told a friend that she "gave up" her entire life for the Royal Family. She is said to have added: "I was willing to do whatever it takes."

The new book then revealed that Meghan used to tip off the press and work with photographs for shots before becoming private with her relationship with Harry.

This morning, PR professional PR Nick Ede - who has previously worked with Meghan Markle - told Good Morning Britain that it was telling that the couple had not made any complaints about the book.

He said: "These are revelations which are coming from the right people with the right messages"

"This is an open letter because someone like Meghan Markle - who has come from Hollywood and been able to have a voice - hasn't been able to do that for two years."

