Quarantine 'to be cut to 10 days for UK travellers arriving from Spain'

The government is reportedly set to slash the time people have to remain at home following a backlash from holidaymakers and businesses

People arriving in the UK from Spain could soon have to quarantine for 10 days rather than a fortnight, it is claimed.

According to The Telegraph, the government is weighing up the move after a huge backlash from holidaymakers and businesses.

Ministers announced the controversial two week quarantine period at the weekend - despite the fact that Transport Secretary Grant Shapps was sunning himself in Spain with his family.

It came after Spanish health authorities announced a surge in new Covid-19 cases, prompting fears of a fresh outbreak.

But tourists affected by the new rules hit back, saying they would lose wages because of the measure.

Tour operator TUI axed all holidays to the Spanish mainland until August 9 because of the new quarantine rules - which require all travellers returning to the UK to self-isolate for 14 days.

The government has yet to confirm it plans to reduce this to 10.

But according to The Telegraph, people returning from high-risk countries could be tested for coronavirus eight days after returning.

If the test comes back negative, they will be allowed to stop isolating.

The Foreign Office has advised against non-essential travel to Spain.

Earlier today this was extended to include the Balearic and Canary Islands.

A Foreign Office spokesperson said: “We have considered the overall situation for British nationals travelling to and from the Balearic and Canary Islands, including the impact of the requirement to self-isolate on return to the UK, and concluded that we should advise British nationals against all non-essential travel to the whole of Spain.”

The shock announcement on Saturday evening was revealed just five hours before the measures became mandatory.

Yesterday, officials in Spain said they would work with the UK government to establish regional air bridges, meaning travel may be allowed to destinations with low rates of infection.

But thousands of holidays were cancelled - with many travellers facing losing hundreds of pounds.

The Tories sparked fury after telling thousands of British holidaymakers they can't claim sick pay when they come home from Spain.

Up to 600,000 Brits in Spain must quarantine for 14 days on their return after spiralling Covid-19 cases prompted a last-minute clampdown.

Yet they won't be able to claim £95.85-a-week Statutory Sick Pay. Instead, Brits must rely on bosses' generosity to either let them work from home; pay a non-legally-required rate of sick pay; or keep paying them full salary while they're stuck indoors.
